Mindset When Dating — Nathalie
English transcript
Dating is not about who you meet, it's about who you are in that process. Your mindset shapes the
way you interpret behaviour, it shapes the way you deal with upset, with disappointment when
things don't go well. It shapes the way you show up, the kind of connections that you allow close,
that you tolerate. So it also shapes the type of relationship that you end up choosing. If you are
dating, your mindset makes dating feel empowering instead of exhausting.
Mindset in dating is where we are looking at this collection of beliefs, of expectations, of emotional
patterns, of ways of interpreting certain behaviours or certain experiences in dating. It's like this
internal lens through which we see what happens in dating, through which we really filter all of
these experiences that we're making. So your mindset is not just what you think, it's really what you
feel, and it will have a direct impact on your nervous system.
If you are diving into dating, for example, with a scarcity mindset — there are no good people out
there — I can guarantee you that whoever you are dating, you will already see them through that
filter. I believe there's no good person out there, so this can't be a good person. We go in with a
filter, and every little thing that might be in support of our already existing belief is going to stand
out to us like crazy.
Remember, our brain is an expectation machine, so we are seeing what we want to see. This is the
job of our brain. It's meant to check back in our little log there and go: okay, what do we believe?
What can we expect here? And this is what we are going to see.
If you go in with a lack of self esteem — maybe I'm not good enough, maybe I'm not pretty enough,
not interesting enough — that will taint your experience. You will dive in with hypervigilance. Maybe
every little moment of them not being as attentive, or them somehow not texting you back fast
enough, is immediately going to become a moment of evidence for those already existing beliefs
that you have about yourself.
If we dive into a relationship or dating with the understanding that we are somehow not enough,
you are very, very likely to miss red flags, to choose people that don't give you what you want, in
that way of self abandonment, because everything you're focused on is pleasing somebody, being
loved. Who do I have to be to this person so they like me? That kind of a mindset is going to affect
the way you date and the way you behave.
The more regulated and safe you feel, the better your choices will be. If we are scared, angry,
frustrated, making decisions from that place is not going to put you in your dream relationship.
Another thing that is important in dating is that your mindset will determine the way that you
interpret other people's behaviour. Two women can have the exact same dating experience and
interpret it completely differently. We care about what we want. It's not about impressing other
people, it is about how do I feel? Is this actually enjoyable to me?
From there you will also see that standards change. Your standards are silent. It's simply: this is
what I'm wanting, this is what I'm looking for, and if you don't have those things, it doesn't mean
you are a lesser person, you are just not the person for me. When standards come from fear, every
time a person does not meet your standard you will feel personally victimised, personally offended,


like how dare this person not meet my standard? It's going to make dating harder.
Now, what do we do when we have a mindset problem in dating? You need to start seeing dating
for what it is, which is an emotionally taxing experience. Dating nowadays, especially if you are on
the apps, is not a walk in the park. Every time you make a connection, every time you start a
conversation, there's hope there. Every time there is a moment where there is a little connection
created, there is a moment of vulnerability, excitement, potential of what could be.
And because of that, we will go through all of these micro moments again and again and again of
disappointment, of things not working out. Those are micro moments of hurt, of disappointment,
and that's not because there is something wrong with you or your wounds. This is just human. This
is a setup where you can basically have like 10 different conversations that never happened before
in history.
So this is something we need to be aware of: that of course it's emotionally taxing, it's an emotional
experience. When we desire something in life, it inherently comes with an ache. We are really bad
at dealing with that ache, because now we live in a society where we can get everything we want in
a minute. That's hard, and it's normal.
Dating is taxing and you need to make sure you treat it like that, and not like this completely banal
thing. You will see that over time those micro moments of disappointment, they will accumulate and
they will make it hard. And that is what turns into belief systems, like there's no good one out there
and dating is annoying.
You need an eye on your emotional state. How am I feeling right now? Am I actually excited and
open to be connecting to people? Why am I picking up my phone? Or am I maybe doing it because
I feel like shit right now? Maybe I'm scared to be alone forever? Maybe bored? Maybe jealous of
my friend that has an awesome relationship? That's not the moment to be dating. That's a moment
to sit with yourself.
Check in with yourself constantly. Take a moment. We don't want to drown in our feelings, we want
to be curious about them. Sit with yourself instead of brushing over these moments, and digest
them. Dating is about who am I being, not just who am I meeting. Am I really up for dating right now
or not?
Take a deep breath and see dates as an opportunity to enjoy, to get pretty, enjoy putting on a nice
outfit, focus on having a good time, practising your emotional availability, being curious about
somebody. The more we take the pressure out, the more capacity we have of being present. Let's
have fun here, let's connect, let's be present.
